[THEME MUSIC]
>>RICHARD DOLAN: Hello.
I'm Richard Dolan and
this is "False Flags."
There is arguably no
event of our lifetime that
has had more impact
on the world around us
on the political forces that
predominate in our world
today than the attacks that
took place on American soil
on September 11, 2001, 9/11.
It's now more than 15 years
ago, but anyone old enough
to remember that day
will never forget it.
Where they were
when they found out,
that feeling in the
pit of their stomach,
and their knowledge even
on that day that somehow
things were going to
change in this world,
and not in a good way.
Well looking back on all that
has transpired since then,
that feeling of dread
was certainly justified.
9/11 took America
into a dark place.
And America has dragged
the rest of the world
along for the ride.
In our last episode,
I discussed some,
by no means all, of the
most egregious problems,
anomalies, and frankly
literally unbelievable aspects
of the official story.
Clearly, any in-depth study
of the events of that day
bring up one serious problem
or explanation after another.
We can only conclude that
the official explanation is
comprised of a tissue of lies.
It's understandably
difficult for people
to accept that they've been
lied to on such a magnitude.
Instinctively, we
want to believe
our official authorities.
For today, I want
to tell you why
9/11 had to happen, at
least from the point of view
of those people who sit at
the top of the human power
hierarchy.
Because there are such
people, and they have always
had ideas about
the direction they
think the world should be going.
They can't always get everything
they want all the time,
but I can assure
you they get more
of what they want than ordinary
people could ever dream of.
In our very first
episode, I discussed
how there have been
many dislocated people
and how easy it is
to run into people
who realize deep
down in their bones
that there's something not
right with the world around us.
How tuning into establishment
news for information
only makes it worse,
only confuses us more.
How that sense of hopelessness
and confusion is by design.
And the reason is simple.
We're living on a planet that is
being systematically plundered
and stolen from beneath us,
everything worth owning,
from the water to the GMO
foods to the pharmaceuticals
to the minerals in the
ground to the public services
and the entire public
infrastructure.
This, unfortunately, is how
globalization is happening.
And that's called
a war, my friends.
It's a transnational corporate
financial theft of everything.
But this is a war run by
necessity, by deception.
That is, those
waging it against you
and me don't want us to know.
I've gone into this
previously, but now
let's get into the
specifics of globalization
and help us to understand
things a little better.
With globalization, you
get economic disruption
and the loss of jobs.
This is Seattle in 1999.
I think Seattle is
a great indicator.
These are the World Trade
Organization protests
from November 30.
They went on for four
days into early December.
You see, the WTO was convening
in Seattle at that time.
The WTO is one of
the prime engines
for global
neoliberalism, that is
the ultra corporate friendly
legal structure being
put into place since
the end of the Cold War.
>> The SMEs are responsible for
the largest share of employment
opportunities.
In most economies over
90% in some countries.
>>RICHARD: One of the
results of neoliberal policy
is the loss of ability
of ordinary people
to control their world
around them, simply
because transnational
trade agreements prevent
local groups or even nations
from legislating laws that
protect their resources
or labor rights.
For the WTO meeting
in 1999, protesters
planned their strategy out
several months in advance.
And when that
convention happened,
these protesters, at minimum
40,000, probably much more,
shut that city down.
They just shut it down.
They were so effective
the delegates could not
enter the premises
for much of the time.
Police tear gas did not work.
Pepper spray didn't work.
The police were overwhelmed
by an incredibly powerful
public reaction.
And this is what happens when
the public feels empowered.
This is when people
were saying no, we're
not going to put up with it.
Of course, a year and a
half later we have 9/11.
After 9/11 with the passage
of the USA Patriot Act
effectively taking away
massive amounts of privacy
in one swoop and all the
subsequent laws passed
via the annual National
Defense Authorization Acts,
the prevalence of
security cameras now
at street corners
throughout the country,
the reality of police voice
and facial recognition profiles
on the population making
sure that you will never
be anonymous again.
The reality that
there is nowhere
left for anyone to hide anymore.
So ever since 9/11, people
learned to duck their heads
and not speak up because
well, bad idea now.
You know, 27% of the US
population is 21 years of age
or younger, more than a
quarter of the population.
These are people who grew up
not knowing anything other
than post 9/11 America.
It either happened
before they were born
or when they were too
young to experience
much awareness before it.
The idea of rule by the
people, the idea of privacy,
we have an entire new
generation who are growing up
without any of that.
It's all gone.
So in the midst of massive
deindustrialization and loss
of hope, an empowered
population was definitely
considered a bad idea, and
an important motivation
to create a crisis big
enough to gain control
over the situation.
>> The National Security Agency
authorization to eavesdrop
on Americans to hunt down
terrorists and encouraged
support for the Patriot Act.
He spoke for just
under 10 minutes.
>>GEORGE W. BUSH: This is
a highly classified program
that is crucial to
our national security.
Its purpose is to detect and
prevent terrorist attacks
against the United States,
our friends, and allies.
>>RICHARD: Now the other
major geopolitical thing
behind false flags I
would suggest to you
is the petrodollar system.
Sometimes people hear about this
thing called the petrodollar,
but what is it really?
Let's go back to the year 1944.
Back then there was a war
going on, the Second World War.
But one thing that
seemed very clear
was that the US and its
allies were going to win.
So the Allied nations met
at a place in New Hampshire
called Bretton Woods.
There they laid
out the future of
the post-world financial order.
Until that point, the reserve
currency of the world,
that is the national
currency against which
all other currencies
were measured,
think of it as the universal
language of economics,
had been the British pound.
But Britain took two major
hits in a row, the First
and Second World Wars.
And the economic
powerhouse of the world
was now the United States.
The US dollar was
backed by gold.
Anywhere in the world you
could sell your dollars
and receive gold for
it at $35 an ounce.
Agreeing on the dollar as
the world's reserve currency
was good for the world,
since it provided
a strong economic foundation
for recovery following the war.
And it was great for
the United States.
Because that meant
not only did the US
export all of its manufactured
goods out throughout the world
and make an enormous
amount of money,
but the US was the only
nation in the world that
was exporting its money.
Everyone wanted dollars.
What that meant was that when
expensive wars came along,
think like the Vietnam
War and all the money that
went into the social
programs during the 1960s,
President Lyndon
Johnson had a choice.
He could raise taxes.
Well, he might think
maybe a bad idea
since that would be
unpopular for sure.
Well, he could not
spend the money.
Hey, there's a thought,
not have the Vietnam War.
But survey says no,
the war was happening.
Third option, just
print the money
and don't worry about inflation.
Because the rest of the world
needs dollars and they'll
just deal with it.
And that was the
option taken for sure.
And it worked, sort
of, but sort of not.
By the end of the 1960s, there
was a run on the US dollar.
People and nations were
trading it in for gold,
getting a great deal
at $35 an ounce.
Soon, America's supply of gold,
which had once been dominant,
was frittering away fast.
Enter President Richard Nixon.
In 1971, he looked
at the problem.
He saw a couple of options.
Option number one, stop the
expensive war in Vietnam.
But no, that was
still going to happen.
Option number two, a painful
bout of raising taxes.
Well, you can
imagine that outcome.
Then there was
option number three,
detach the dollar from
the gold standard.
Let it be traded like any
other free floating currency.
Nixon said he was doing this
temporarily, by which he really
meant permanently.
So that solved the gold problem.
But now there were
all these dollars
floating around the world and
no intrinsic reason for nations
to keep them.
Soon, they would all end
up in the United States
and end with what?
Massive inflation.
Not good.
Enter Henry Kissinger.
Here's a picture
of Henry Kissinger
and the King of
Saudi Arabia in 1973.
The point of this meeting was
to keep the dollar in place
as the world reserve currency.
And now they wanted to hook
the dollar to petroleum.
And really what Kissinger was
able to get for an agreement
was to have all the OPEC nations
sell their oil only in dollars.
And that is the foundation of
American policy to this day.
All the nations would get
their oil pegged in dollars.
It's great for the US because
it maintains a global demand
for US currency, which allows
for all kinds of things
that the US can do that no
other nation can think of.
It also holds the world
hostage as a result.
But no other nation could
afford to do what the US does,
like prosecute all of its
wars and the like because
of the petrodollar system.
It is a foundation
of America's empire.
It's really never
discussed, never,
ever discussed in
mainstream media,
but the petrodollar system
is both the foundation
and the driving force of
nearly everything America
does in the world.
>>RICHARD NIXON: The strength
of a nation's currency
is based on the strength
of that nation's economy.
And the American economy is by
far the strongest in the world.
Accordingly, I have directed
the Secretary of the Treasury
to take the action necessary
to defend the dollar
against the speculators.
I have directed Secretary
Connally to suspend temporarily
the convertibility of the dollar
into gold or other reserve
assets except in amounts
and conditions determined
to be in the interest
of monetary stability
and in the best interest
of the United States.
>>RICHARD: Now we get
to Saddam Hussein,
another trigger to 9/11.
The petrodollar system
is why the United States
will demonize anyone not fully
on board with that system.
And guess what?
In the year 2000 for
the first time ever,
a major threat came to
the petrodollar system.
A fellow by the name of Saddam
Hussein, the leader of Iraq,
one of the world's
leading oil producers,
announced that he would now
be selling his oil in euros.
Do you think this might have set
off alarm bells in Washington?
Oh, yes, yes it did.
You see, the petrodollar
system not only
forces the United States
to physically control
the sources of
energy that exists,
basically the
hydrocarbons that go
from West Africa across the
continent to the Middle East
into Western Asia.
That's 2/3 of the world's oil
and natural gas right there.
And the US wants it all.
They want to control
it physically.
But the petrodollar
system means that the US
has to be the
policeman of the world.
Not to ensure world
peace or some such,
but to ensure,
among other things,
that the oil producing
nations of the world
sell their oil in dollars.
Saddam's decision, I
am suggesting to you,
was a key motivator for 9/11.
Sure, it was a nice score to
steal roughly $30 trillion
worth of oil on the ground in
Iraq, which they did and then
sold off to
multinationals, and then
to steal all the
great mineral wealth
under the ground in Afghanistan
as a nice little bonus.
So theft of course, is
always important to this.
And then to control
the population.
But one of the very
first decisions
taken by the US-installed
government in Iraq
after the invasion of 2003
was to put that country back
on the petrodollar system.
I would suggest too that the
petrodollar and all of this
is part of the hierarchical
based and scarcity driven
system.
That is energy scarcity.
Energy in our world
today is based
on physical control over a
particular commodity, oil
and natural gas, mainly.
And if you control
those locations,
you control the distribution.
You have power.
That's a strength and
power of the system,
but it's also a
weakness of the system.
Because if we ever develop an
alternative energy paradigm,
this whole system is
very much in danger.
And that's a good thing.
So this whole system is
vulnerable to emerging
technologies.
And that means that the
false flag phenomenon itself
might be vulnerable to some
extent because of that.
OK, it's one thing to
talk about generalities.
Control the public
domestically, control the oil
internationally.
But let's get into
some specifics.
In the aftermath of 9/11,
several major transformative
laws were passed
forever altering
the nature of American political
life, and indeed certain core
freedoms and privacies
that Americans
had fought for and accepted
as their birthright.
The two most important
of these laws
were the USA Patriot Act and
the Homeland Security Act.
There is no way to get around
the fact these laws were
and remain extreme.
They mark a decisive,
and this must
be said, dark turning point.
Not only in the history of the
United States, but the world.
As the world's most
powerful nation,
what happens in
the United States
has implications everywhere.
The USA Patriot Act was rushed
through a panicked Congress
in the immediate
aftermath of 9/11.
Overnight, it vastly expanded
the government's authority
to spy on its own citizens.
At the same time, reducing
checks and balances
on those powers like
judicial oversight.
You might consider
it a bit galling,
considering that if
you are an American
you're paying for
this police state.
It's noteworthy, by the way,
that the US government never
said that the 9/11
attacks happened
because they weren't surveilling
the population enough.
Indeed, much of the
Patriot Act had nothing
to do with fighting terrorism.
So now US intelligence
agents could
conduct a secret search of
an American citizen's home
without probable cause.
And they could use
any evidence found
there to declare him
an enemy combatant,
imprison him without trial, and
deny him the right to confront
witnesses against him.
Under the Patriot
Act, the courts
have no chance to
review these decisions.
Indeed, they might never
even find out about them.
The 2001 USA Patriot Act
also allowed the government
to monitor religious and
political institutions
without suspecting criminal
activity all in order
to assist terror
investigations, however
loosely "terror" is defined.
That was once called
freedom of association.
Now it's under
government surveillance.
The Patriot Act also undermined
attorney client privilege.
It allowed the government
to monitor federal prison
jailhouse conversations
between attorneys and clients
and deny lawyers to US
citizens accused of crimes.
The other major legislation
to occur after 9/11
took place a year later.
This was the Homeland
Security Act, which
went into law in November 2002.
It created the United States
Department of Homeland Security
and the new cabinet level
position of Secretary
of Homeland Security.
It is the largest federal
government reorganization
since the National
Security Act of 1947.
>>BARACK OBAMA: To
disrupt terrorist attacks,
to make our borders more secure,
respond to natural disasters,
and make our immigration
system more effective and fair.
Addressing any one of these
challenges is a tall order.
Addressing all of them at
once is a monumental task.
But that's what
the dedicated men
and women of the Department of
Homeland Security do every day.
>>RICHARD: The Department
of Homeland Security
really goes hand-in-hand
with the USA Patriot Act.
That act created the new
national security state,
and DHS is one of
the main government
bodies that enforce it.
It's important to know that
these laws, this revolution
in American politics
hinged on 9/11.
Without 9/11, these laws could
not ever have been justified.
And how do we know this?
Because both of these creations
had long since been planned,
the timing was just never right.
First regarding
the Patriot Act we
have the statement of former
counter-terrorism czar Richard
Clarke who told Stanford
Law professor Lawrence
Lessig quote, "I remember
someone asking a Justice
Department official how did they
write such a large statute so
quickly?
And of course, the
answer was that it
had been sitting in the
drawers of the Justice
Department for the
last 20 years waiting
for the event where they
would pull it out," end quote.
So there's that.
But here's something
just as interesting.
And I'm guessing you
probably don't know this.
The core of the
USA Patriot Act was
in fact written in 1995 by
none other than Senator Joe
Biden, the man who became
Barack Obama's vice president.
Yes.
This was reported
in 2008 on CNET.
You might find it interesting,
by the way, that he did this
a few months before the Oklahoma
City bombing took place.
Joe Biden introduced a
bill called the Omnibus
Counterterrorism Act of 1995.
It called for secret evidence
to be used in prosecutions.
It wanted to expand wiretap
and surveillance laws.
To create a new
federal crime called
"terrorism" that
could be invoked
based on political beliefs.
It wanted to allow the United
States military to be used
in civilian law enforcement.
And it allowed permanent
detention of non-US citizens
without judicial review.
Just come take them away.
And Biden, by the way,
seemed quite proud
that his 1995 bill was so close
to the Patriot Act of 2001.
This is what he said,
quote, "I draft a terrorism
bill after the
Oklahoma City bombing
and the bill Attorney
General John Ashcroft sent up
was my bill."
Back in 1995, most
people were horrified
by what Biden proposed
and his bill went nowhere.
All that was needed
was a trigger.
The Department of
Homeland Security
too had been something
that certain people
had been hankering for.
Well before September 11,
2001 a government commission
called the Hart-Rudman
Commission created
under President Clinton in 1998
created the blueprint for what
became the Homeland
Security Act,
and published it
in a report called
"The Road Map for National
Security, Imperative
for Change."
It called for the creation
of a new independent quote,
"National Homeland Security
Agency," end quote, which
would integrate various US
government agencies, including
FEMA, the Coast Guard, the
Customs Service, and the border
patrol.
Well, that's what we got.
>> In a single year, the Coast
Guard and Border Protection
intercepted an astonishing
$10 billion worth of drugs
on the way to America.
>> This is the most
sophisticated tunnel that has
ever been discovered
along the border.
>>RICHARD: Now let's take a
look at the people involved
in pushing all this through.
In the early 1990s, there was
a group of ideologues and power
politicians.
The members of
this group in 1997
created The Project for the
New American Century or PNAC.
They were all about one thing.
In their words,
they were dedicated
to the proposition that
quote, "American leadership
is good for America
and the world."
They didn't believe in the
idea of America consulting
with the rest of the world
about this planetary takeover.
PNAC immediately got on
President Clinton's case
about their concern that
Saddam Hussein was not
being fully contained.
They recommended a strategy
to protect the United States,
as they put it, from the threat
of weapons of mass destruction,
and put in place policies that
would take down Saddam Hussein.
Forget international
law, who needs that.
So yes, their first
order of business
was to call for the toppling
of a sovereign government.
Of course, they knew that to
undertake such radical measures
abroad they needed
radical measures at home.
The kind that were
encapsulated in what
would become the USA Patriot Act
and the Homeland Security Act.
And they realized that
something dramatic
would have to happen in order
to allow their radical program
to become a reality.
Just before the election
that put their man George W.
Bush into the White House,
they stated in September 2000
that quote, "The process
of transformation,
even if it brings
revolutionary change,
is likely to be a
long one absent,
some catastrophic and catalyzing
event like a new Pearl Harbor."
In other words, only
something truly catastrophic
would allow them to implement
their dream of regime
change and domestic revolution.
When George W. Bush won
the presidential election,
PNAC and its army of neo-cons
got high level government
positions.
They were running the nation.
Invading Iraq was a
foregone conclusion.
Now they needed the pretext.
On September 11, 2001
they got that and more.
>> When the building did
collapse or whatever it was
that happened, it
was a huge explosion,
a huge rumbling cloud of smoke
and fire came across Church
Street.
>>PAUL LEMOS: About 20
stories below, at least
that's what it looked like
to me about 75 flights up
below the fire I saw from the
corner boom, boom, boom, boom,
boom, boom, just like twenty
straight hits just went down.
And then I just saw the whole--
the whole building just went.
And as the bombs were going,
people started running.
And I sat there and watched
a few of them explode.
And then I just turned
around and I just
started running for my life.
Because at that point,
the World Trade Center
was coming right down.
From the corner, boom,
boom, boom, boom, boom.
The whole building just went.
And as the bombs were going,
people just started running.
And I sat there and watched
a few of them explode.
>>RICHARD: Did they
make it happen?
Well, I'll leave
you with the words
of Aaron Russo, a filmmaker
who, to his own surprise,
became friends with Nicholas
Rockefeller, a lawyer
and member of the Council
on Foreign Relations.
Russo gave an interview shortly
before he died of cancer.
>>AARON RUSSO: And we've never
learned the truth about 9/11.
The whole agenda is
to create a one world
government where everybody has
an RFID chip implanted in them.
All money is to
be in those chips.
And this is given to me
straight from Rockefeller.
This is what they
want to accomplish.
>>RICHARD: Russo said that Nick
Rockefeller told him in October
2000, that is before the
election that put Bush
into the White
House, that quote,
"There was going
to be an event."
He never told me what
it was going to be,
but there was going
to be an event.
And out of that event, we were
going to invade Afghanistan.
We were going to invade Iraq
to take over the oil fields
and establish a base
in the Middle East
and make it all part
of the New World Order.
And sure enough, later
on 9/11 it happened.
And I remembered how
he was telling me
there was going to be
this war on terror,
which is no real enemy.
And the whole thing
is a giant hoax,
but it's a way
for the government
to take over the
American people.
Here's the deal, we
look at these matters
because they have
shaped our world.
To this day, the official
establishment media
pretends one thing
while the truth is
something entirely different.
Much of the entire national
security apparatus, and indeed
of the entire world
for the past 15 years
now has been created on the
basis of 9/11, an event itself
that is not what it has been
portrayed to us officially.
Indeed, the evidence
shows us that the story
we have been given is a lie,
one that brave researchers have
been exposing for some time now.
Unfortunately, we live
in an era of false flags.
That's just how it is right now.
But the best way for us
to deal with that reality
is to recognize it and not to
give it power over ourselves,
because we don't have to be
taken in by the illusions.
Because if we seek
transformation,
we need truth as our
constant companion.
Join me next time
on "False Flags"
when we explore the great lie,
weapons of mass destruction
and the invasion of Iraq.
It's easy to forget just how
many false flags were employed
in galvanizing the public
to invade a country that
had nothing to do with 9/11.
I'm Richard Dolan,
until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]